<!--AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED
************************************************************
*                                                          *
*    This file was automatically generated by copying      *
*    'chapters/exams_overview.md'. If you want to          *
*    manually overwrite it, you have to remove this        *
*    whole comment.                                        *
*                                                          *
************************************************************
-->

# Exams Overview

## How does GNSS work? (~20%)

### Definitions

- Ephemeris
- Time-To-First Fix (TTFF) / Cold, warm hot
- Receiver clock bias
- Code-based differential
- C/A-Code (PRN)
- Pseudorange measurements
- Differential GNSS
- Carrier phase
- GPS spoof
- GPS jamming

### Example questions

- What is the role of GNSS in timing information (think critical economic infrastructure)?
- How does the GNSS space segment effectively enable navigation?
- Why is it important to synchronise the GPS clock with ground-based clocks?
- Where are the ground-based clocks located?
- What is the cause of the receiver ‘clock bias’, and how is it resolved through the code-based positioning solution?
- How does code-based Differential GNSS ‘solve’, among other error sources, the travel-time delay of the signals through the ionosphere?
- What is the difference between GPS jamming and GPS spoofing?
- How do GPS jamming devices work?
- Is … description of … correct? Rephrase if not.

## GNSS performance (~20%)

### Definitions

- Dilution of precision (DOP)
- Horizontal dilution of precision (HDOP)
- Vertical dilution of precision (VDOP)
- Geometric dilution of precision (GDOP)
- Accuracy
- Precision
- Availability
- Continuity
- Integrity
- Real Time Kinematic (RTK)
- Network RTK
- Precise Point Positioning (PPP)
- PPP-RTK
- DGNSS
- Error sources
- 06-GPS

### Example questions

- How can the Time-to-First-Fix (TTFF) be significantly improved in GNSS-enabled, Wi-Fi/4G-connected, smartphones compared to stand-alone code-based, GPS receivers?
- What influences the fluctuation in DOP values?
- What are the reasons behind the higher values of VDOP throughout the day compared to HDOP?
- Which real-time positioning corrections have to be provided to obtain higher accuracy? Why are these corrections not just incorporated into the standard GNSS Services?
- Which fundamental issues cause the difference in horizontal and vertical accuracy of (e.g.) 20 cm versus 40 cm?
- How can the performance of each of the following parameters be improved: a) accuracy, b) precision, c) availability, and d) integrity?
- For positioning, does it matter where you are: a) at the North Pole, b) in the centre of a city in the Netherlands, c) somewhere at the Equator?
- What kind of corrections does 06-GPS offer, how are these corrections obtained, and how do they reach centimeter accuracy?
- Is … description of … correct? Rephrase if not.

## GNSS in the built environment (outdoor, indoor and in between) (~20%)

### Definitions

- Shadow matching
- Urban canyon
- Multipath

### Example questions

- Why is Wrong-Side-of-the-Street accuracy preferable for GPS precision over a general indication like '10 meters anticipated accuracy'?
- What features of Assisted GPS (A-GPS) enable achieving a time-to-first-fix (TTFF) of 1 second?
- What is shadow matching?
- Is … description of … correct? Rephrase if not.

## CRS (~10%)

### Definitions

- Geocentric CS
- Topocentric CS
- Ellipsoid
- Epoch
- Map projection
- Terrestrial Reference System
- Terrestrial Reference Frame
- Datum
- Coordinate system
- Coordinate reference system
- Transformation
- Conversion
- International Terrestrial Reference Frames (ITRF)
- Normaal Amsterdams Peil (NAP)
- Rijksdriehoeksmeting (RD)

### Example questions

- What could go wrong when users exchanging geoinformation in RD coordinates do not use the official RDNAPTRANS™ procedure between ETRS89 and RD?
- What are the needed operations for a transformation from ETRS89 to the Rijksdriehoeksstelsel?
- For what purposes is a more accurate geoid useful?
- What are the factors you would consider when choosing between different CRSs?
- What are the current issues concerning CRS?
- Is … description of … correct? Rephrase if not.

## Wi-Fi-monitoring / Fingerprinting (~20%)

### Definitions

- Wi-Fi-Monitoring
- Wi-Fi-Fingerprinting
- Location
- Position
- Yield
- Consistency
- Overhead
- Power consumption
- Latency
- Roll-out and operating costs
- Time of Arrival (ToA)
- Time Difference of Arrival (TDoA)
- Received Signal Strength (RSS)
- Angle of Arrival (AOA)
- Trilateration
- Path-Loss
- Fine Timing Measurement (FTM)
- Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)
- Inertial Navigation Systems (INS)
- Visual Based Indoor Localisation
- Isovists

### Example questions

- What is Wi-Fi Monitoring and Fingerprinting?
- What is Wi-Fi Triangulation?
- How would you redesign the layout and/or the way of working of a Wi-Fi-based solution inside the Faculty of Architecture and the Built Environment, such that you optimize the localisation/positioning of Wi-Fi performance?
- What is an opt-in and an opt-out?
- Is … description of … correct? Rephrase if not.

## Location awareness and privacy (~10%)

### Definitions

- IndoorGML
- I-Space
- sI-Space
- sO-Space
- O-space

### Example questions

- What does the significance of decimal places mean in Lat/Long coordinates?
- Why is it useful to have detailed information about the surroundings?
- Can you navigate using only information of the route (not the surroundings)?
- How can IndoorGML help with indoor navigation?
- Is it legal for a hospital to get a real-time overview map of all visitors and employees?
- What is an opt-in and an opt-out?
- Is … description of … correct? Rephrase if not.
