# GEO1003 - Shared Notes

## Where to find them

The notes are available at <https://zokszy.github.io/GEO1003-Shared_Notes/>. The PDF versions are available from the website and in the repo in the [`docs/pdf/`](docs/pdf) folder.

## How to contribute

To select a part of the reader to take notes, look and fill the table here: <https://tud365-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/r/personal/abry_tudelft_nl/Documents/GEO1003-Shared_Notes-Repartition.xlsx?d=w341fac81b9764163a339d730ea629f23&csf=1&web=1&e=q98ee1>.

To contribute to the notes, here are a few rules to follow:

1. Organize the notes in the [`docs/content/`](docs/content/) folder in **chapters**:
   1. Notes that follow the reader's chapters should be in the [`docs/content/books/`](docs/content/books/) folder
   2. Notes that are reorganized to follow the structure of the final notes should be in the [`docs/content/notes/`](docs/content/notes/) folder
2. Each section (part of a chapter) should be a **separate Markdown file**
3. Each section of the final notes should have a **concise version** (`name.md`) and a **long version** (`name-long.md`). The concise version should contain the main concepts and the long version should contain the explanations. If the long version doesn't exist, it will be automatically generated by copying the concise version.
4. **Images** should be in the [`docs/images/`](docs/images/) folder
5. When adding a new section, update the [`docs/notes.txt`](docs/notes.txt) file to include it at the right place in the whole document.

You can also look at the chapter [`docs/content/notes/example`](docs/content/notes/example) to see how the notes should be organized.

If you don't know Markdown, you can look at the section [**Example/Markdown Basics**](https://zokszy.github.io/GEO1003-Shared_Notes/content/notes/example/markdown_basics/) in the notes for a small introduction.

## Planned organization

The main idea is to split the notes in three parts:

1. The **concise** notes to print for the exam with the main concepts
2. The **long** notes with explanations of the concepts for people who haven't read the related documents
3. The **books** notes with the main concepts and explanations

The **concise** and **long** notes should have the same structure, but the long notes should have more explanations.

The **books** notes are not mandatory, but if you take notes continuously while reading the reader, you can add them to the repo there. These notes are organized by book and chapter of the reader.

## Structure of the repo

The repo is structured as follows:

```bash
GEO1003-Shared-Notes/
├── .github/workflows/  # Folder with the GitHub Actions
├── docs/               # Main folder
│   ├── bash/           # Scripts to export the notes as PDF
│   ├── content/        # Content of the notes
│   │   ├── books/      # Notes per book from the reader
│   │   └── notes/      # Notes merged in coherent chapters
│   ├── images/         # Images
│   ├── pdf/            # Notes exported as PDF
│   ├── index.md        # Main page of the notes for the website version
│   ├── metadata.yaml   # Metadata of the notes
│   └── notes.txt       # Table of contents of the notes
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore file
├── mkdocs.yml          # MkDocs configuration file for the website version
├── README.md           # Main README file
└── requirements.txt    # Python requirements
```

## How it works

The PDF versions are built using Pandoc and the website version is built using MkDocs.

### Automatic build

Whenever changes are pushed to the main branch, the GitHub Actions will automatically:

1. Build the PDF versions of the notes
2. Build and publish the new version of the notes on the GitHub Pages

This process takes a few minutes, so if your changes are not directly visible on the website, this is normal.

### Local build

You can also build the notes locally. However, the versions used online will be the ones built by the GitHub Actions.

To build the notes locally, you can follow these steps:

1. Clone the repo with:

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:ZokszY/GEO1003-Shared_Notes.git
    ```

2. Create a Python virtual environment and install the requirements:

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Export the notes as PDF (these commands require bash):

    ```bash
    cd docs
    bash bash/export_notes.sh
    bash bash/export_notes-long.sh
    ```

4. Run the website version locally:

    ```bash
    cd ..
    mkdocs serve --open
    ```
